Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, my constituents in Maine and millions of Americans nationwide face an unprecedented crisis as they agonize over how  they will pay skyrocketing oil bills to keep their homes and their families warm in the winter ahead. Hundreds have written to me with their concerns. I want to share a few e-mails and letters to illustrate the magnitude of this problem. 
   Amelia from Harrison, Maine, writes: ``I am a 16-year-old girl. This summer, instead of being a teenager and having fun, I am staying home to take care of the house because my parents don't have time. My dad works three jobs and my mom works one to pay for the constantly rising prices of gas, food and oil. With my parents working four jobs, you would think we would have enough money to get by. We don't.'' 
   Marie from Gorham writes: ``I am a single foster parent. I have two daughters with special needs. I am worried sick on how I am going to be able to pay $500 or more every 3 to 4 weeks to heat my home. I can't look my foster daughters in their eyes and tell them I can't afford to keep them. We are their family.'' 
   Michael from Topsham wrote on behalf of his 87-year old father-in-law, who lives alone Auburn, Maine: ``Last year his oil fuel cost was approximately $6,400. He is a retired Army Reserve Master Sergeant with 20 years of service. His annual expenditure for fuel oil this year would likely be $10,200. This would consume 85 percent of his annual income of $12,000. Our elderly American citizens will be unable to financially manage these costs. Our government needs to intervene and help our elderly citizens during this unprecedented fuel crisis.'' 
   Marie, Amelia and Michael's stories are just a few examples of the human toll from soaring heating oil prices. More than 8 in 10 Mainers rely on oil to heat their homes. The average Maine household uses between 800 and 1,000 gallons of heating oil a winter. The median home income in Maine is $43,000. At current prices, the average home will pay between $3,700 and $4,700 just to heat their homes. Many will spend more than $5,000. This is more than 10 percent of the gross income for the median income household in 5 months. Coupled with soaring costs for gasoline, food and other essentials, people worry they may have to choose between heating their homes and feeding their families. 
   Madam Speaker, this Congress must act now before the winter freeze sets in. We need a new comprehensive energy policy to free ourselves from foreign oil. The people in Maine and America are suffering right now, and we need to provide them with immediate relief in the short term to help them get through the winter. 
   I have a plan to do just that. First, we must fully fund the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, LIHEAP, and weatherization programs to help the poor, the disabled and the elderly on fixed income. 
   Second, we must provide relief for middle-class families fighting to make ends meet. 
   Last week, Carolyn McCarthy of New York and I introduced H.R. 6605, the Home Heating Fuels Cost Relief Act. Our legislation would provide a $1,000 refundable tax credit for individuals, $2,000 for families, toward the price of home heating oil, as well as a program to provide up to $10,000 in low interest loans for families to weatherize their homes 
   Third, soaring gas prices and heating oil prices are crippling small business like independent truckers and lobstermen. These businesses are the backbone of the Maine economy. I have introduced H.R. 2133, the Small Business Fuel Cost Relief Act, to create a tax credit for eligible businesses for any amount they spend on fuel, including gasoline, diesel, natural gas and heating oil, over the price on Labor Day 2004, adjusted for inflation. 
   Madam Speaker, families and small businesses in Maine and across America work hard for the money they spend on fuel. They deserve leadership in Washington that will act now to bring immediate relief from rising gasoline and heating fuel prices. 
   They also demand leadership to change direction and implement an energy policy that harnesses American ingenuity and entrepreneurship to reduce dependence on foreign oil, maximize conservation and efficiency, perfect alternative fuels and technologies, create jobs, and put America on the path to sustainable, affordable energy future. That is the task this Congress faces. 

Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I rise to express my disappointment that the administration has done nothing to rein in rising fuel prices. 
   The past 7 years have brought hardship to anyone in Maine with a vehicle to fill up at the gas station, a furnace to feed, or a livelihood dependent on affordable fuel. 
   As you can see in this chart, in January 2001 oil traded at $23 to $25 per barrel. This week, it topped $120 per barrel. 
   In January 2001, #2 heating oil cost Maine families and businesses $1.55 a gallon. This week, it topped $3.85. 
   In January 2001, regular unleaded gasoline cost Maine drivers $1.55 a gallon. According to the AAA, the going price in Portland this week is $3.55 a gallon, and rising. 
   In January 2001, diesel for their rigs cost Maine's independent truckers $1.53 per gallon. In Bangor this week, it was $4.33 per gallon. 
   These past 7 years, the oil companies have padded their bottom lines at the expense of the hardworking people of Maine and across the country. For the past 7 years, everyone in Maine has paid a steep price for the Bush administration's disastrous energy policy and for Big Oil's efforts in Congress to block legislation to stop energy profiteering. 
   What has the administration done? Nothing. And they will do nothing unless the people's elected representatives push them to action. 
   That is why I have called upon the Federal Trade Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the Attorney General of the U.S., and the Secretary of Energy to launch an immediate investigation of price fixing, manipulation, rampant speculation, and other unscrupulous behavior in the petroleum markets. Inappropriate and criminal behavior by oil companies, their subsidiaries, agents, or employees must be prosecuted and punished to the full extent of the law. 
   These outrageous price increases are a cruel blow for Maine families whose incomes are stagnant or shrinking, and whose costs for health insurance, college tuition, and other everyday expenses continue to rise faster than inflation. Fuel prices are an economic catastrophe for Maine farmers, fishermen, and other small business people. For some of Maine's independent truckers, like those I met on the road in Kennebunk when they were coming down here, unbridled fuel costs when coupled with a stagnating economy may very well put them out of business. 
   As independent truckers are staring down unemployment, oil companies are reaping record profits. However, for one sector of the economy, the last 7 years have been a bonanza. 
   In 2001, the Big 5 Oil companies posted combined profits of just over $40 billion. In 2007, their combined profits topped $123 billion. ExxonMobil's $41 billion profit last year was more than all of the Big 5 combined in 2001, and  smashed the record for the highest annual profit in history for a U.S. company. 
   To put that number in perspective, ExxonMobil's profits last year were more than we spent on road construction; they were greater than the amount the VA will spend on health care for our veterans this year. ExxonMobil's profits were larger than the entire budget for the Homeland Security Department in fiscal year 2008. That is profits, not revenues, and those profits come directly from the pockets of our constituents who pay the oil companies' exorbitant prices. 
   In the House, we passed the Federal Price Gouging Act to give the Federal Trade Commission explicit authority to investigate and punish those who artificially inflate the price of energy, especially those who profit most, those at the top of the chain. The bill has passed the House, but it has stalled in the other body. 
   It is also time to go after the energy speculators who drive up energy prices through off-market trading. Those trading practices are unseen and unregulated, but they do great damage. I support the Close the Enron Loophole Act, and the Preventing the Unfair Manipulation of Prices Act legislation to hold oil speculators accountable to the same rules that already govern traders who are trading on regulated markets. 
   It is time now to roll back the $14 billion in tax breaks and incentives that we gave to Big Oil in the 2005 energy bill. It was a disgrace then, and it is an outrage now. I voted against these tax incentives, tax breaks in 2005, and I am pleased that the House under new leadership has already voted to role them back. But in the other body, Big Oil's friends have maneuvered to block a vote on the rollback bill. 
   Finally, we need to provide targeted relief to the small businesses that depend on fuel, whether they are heating buildings or driving trucks. We need more leadership in the House and over in the other body and with the administration. 

